# Lab 6- Dataset Analysis
## Introduction
In this lab, I will describe an already existing scholarly dataset and discuss its contributions to a particular field and/or subfield(s).
The approach is from the perspective of description and observation first, and critique second and the goal is seeking to understand why my dataset is the way it is before I critique it. [^1]

My selected dataset is from [Trump Twitter Archive](https://www.thetrumparchive.com/), containing nearly 30,000 tweets from Trump's official Twitter account from 2009 to January 2022. I selected this dataset because first, I'm interested in working on data from social media, and specifically Twitter, and second, I have been following Trump's Twitter for years.
## The Dataset
Here is the [link](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1sxGMj9PUcOnShw00Mq87kOJ7WVn15uVg8bol2IDB8Co/edit?usp=sharing) to copy of the dataset description template.
## Reflections and Discussions
The prompot question of the week is:
>* What do you see as the most important or significant aspect of this dataset for scholars, researchers, and/or teachers? 
>* Additionally, what do you see as the limits of this dataset? 
>* What is not included, and why, and what are the potential consequences of these omissions? 
>* Is it possible to collect or include what has been overlooked? Why or why not? 
>* How do the creators of this dataset describe or understand its limitations or boundaries?


The most important aspect of this dataset is having a sense of Trump's topics, and *probably* his government was most or least concerned with. It is an excellent resource to map and compare all events during his presidency. Most importantly, it tells a lot about the American society that voted for him in both elections. It can be a mirror of what a significant part of the American people want.

The dataset could not be more complete as it only retrieves the once-available data from Twitter. However, there is some room for improvement for more clarity. 

- I'd like to know how deleted tweets were spotted. As the FAQ of the website says, apparently, this website used to run every 60 seconds and record Trump's tweets. Therefore, if any tweets have been deleted before the first 60 seconds, they won't have been recorded here. To avoid these limits, probably the code could have been set to check Trump's account more frequently than 60 seconds. 

- I also would like to know the full name of the data collector. 

- This has nothing to do with the dataset itself, but it is worth mentioning: I wonder how the data collector (and here the analyzer) has labeled some tweets on the *Insight* section. For instance, how Brendon has spotted the tweets belonging to the categories of "fake news."

The potential threats to these ambiguities could result in incomplete or wrong analysis. However, I am not sure how the positionality of the data collector can be important in such a process. Those Tweets (the main materials) are not available anymore. I assume people with researcher accounts on Twitter can still access them to do the accuracy check, though.

Typically, in such datasets, links to the tweets are provided as one main metadata element. That is not the case here, as Twitter has suspended this account.


The most memorable sentence that resonates with me while going through this dataset is Owen's second axiom from his *Sixteen Guiding Digital Preservation Axioms* : *Institutions make preservation possible.*
Twitter has put all these materials, meaning Trump's tweets, out of access, meaning we can not look into the main materials themselves. There are some arguments if this action goes against the freedom of speech. Many politicians post contents that harm nations. However, their accounts have not been suspended. The question might be, what is the positionality of this American company, Twitter, and its policies, to a former American president? How can Twitter keeps a balance in its positionality in all other countries? What are the relationship, meaning effects, and influences between Twitter and Trump? Is Twitter more than a mere empty platform that is used by politicians- which in this case, apparently, it is? How is this platform keeps its neutrality, and does it at all? What other controls in terms of visibility policies does this company have over the "thoughts" of politicians? In this case that Tweets are out of access, we can see how *Tools can get in the way just as much as they can help.* 

I would like to highlight the other axiom is *Hoarding is not preservation*. These tweets have been preserved because there is a somehow *clear and coherent approach to collection development, arrangement, and description* provided. To contrast this, I would like to exemplify an issue I recently had with my dataset of Tweets: I had a main spreadsheet exactly like this one I'm discussing here: with tweet IDs and everything, also having a link to the original tweet. When creating a second sheet, I just had Tweets and Tweet IDs. I read around 1000 tweets to ensure how to categorize their content and which belongs to what. In the end, I noticed a problem: I had not copied the "date" column. This resulted in an inconvenience as I could not compare and analyze many goals I had, such as if victim-blaming during the #metoo movement in Iran has been increased or decreased in Twittersphere. It is essential to have a specific way of "arranging" data and keeping track of changes or transformations.

[^1]: Dr. Lindsay Thomas's Syllabus, [Lab 6](https://lindsaythomas.net/eng612s22/labs/lab-6/) 
