# Lab 1: Github
Hello world! This is my first post here and my very first experience with Github. It seems plain and fun to work with, although it might appear to be not as user-friendly as other platforms such as Wordpress. I like it, because it's closer to coding language anyways!

## **First steps challenges with Github**
For me, forking a theme and making it works was the most challening part of the work. I still have this important question of how am I going to change my theme easily if I don't like it one day? Are all my files gonna be gone, or should i make a transfer from here to the new theme? These are some concerns I'm trying not to try them out now, just not to make things messed up until I get a little more fluent with Github.
## **Personal Goals of taking a DH class**
- **I urge for some technical skills, I really do!** I have had enough of personal wandering and self-studying in the field, now I need hands-on practice. I have always been interested in texts and reading or handling them with machines. I love arts and literature, but I'm also facinated with media and technology and I truly believe we are at the turning point of history. 
- **I'm learning so that I can teach and pass it on!** Again, because of the world and specially literary field changing, I want to be able to design different course for students or whoever who needs some critical approach to social media or literary creatures(!) on it. I have on mind to devise and teach a course on something like *Computational Literature* , *Reasearch on Instagram* or *Reading Twitter like a pro* . 
- **I'm taking this course because [LCTHOMAS](https://github.com/lcthomas) is teahcing it!** I'm facinated by Lindsay's expertise and background with different projects she managed. I'm excited about how she teaches, which is different compared to all other course I have had by now and I'm secretely observe to learn from her and her method, besides really enjoying it.
- **I badly need this course and all teahing materials for my projects!** Trying to scrape data from Twitter and then later researching instapoetry and studying social media for my personal, academic and career interests, I desperately need all the reading materials, theory and practice.

That's all! And here, virtual chin-chin and many cheers to my first post here! Can't wait for more!
*Yasamin, Jan 2022*
