# Lab Report 2
## Introduction: Spreadsheets
This week’s lab was about spreadsheets. As a tool to create datasets and make relevances among each datum, spreadsheets are essential to explore in social science and the humanities. A lot can be done with spreadsheets that I hope one day become confident enough to do so—also, learning how to read the data and understand it on spreadsheet matters in research projects. In short, Spreadsheets are [only] a way to structure the available [given/found] knowledge, meaning data.

## Links to Spreadsheets:
Here are the links to both datasets that we are going to discuss in this post.
- [Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade dataset](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1KYYxc5ZJdavs9ooPrCzEo31H7Zz8wZPVLosmqQZu7qk/edit?usp=sharing)  
- [Post45 HathiTrust dataset](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1atPbODEX_wqlSdkwk9_lxIKm4MRuDTXkcJD7fsZHG-I/edit?usp=sharing).

## Initial Observations
### Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade dataset
I had a hard time contextually understanding Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade Database. It might stem from my lack of knowledge in the history of Americas, the United States and Slavery. I assume a general descption about a dataset can be always hellful although creating one might be a rather critical task, as we saw in readings such as [Data Feminism](https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/data-feminism). 

All in all, as I understood and at the very first glance, this dataset contains metadata about different voyages. In each, the slavers have been traded. The journeys took place between 1500-1900. Information such as the captain's name, the flag on each ship, the travel dates (including departure and arrival), departure and arrival location, and similar metadata has been given for each voyage.

### Post45 HathiTrust dataset
According to its one-line short description, this dataset is a table with metadata for fiction held by HathiTrust from 1945 to the present. I found this minimal description very useful. Suppose I am about to present a dataset one day. In that case, I will make sure to insert a relatively neutral, short, and general explanation for the table of data. It gives an instant idea of what data we are looking at.

I was not familiar with all the entries. There are some OCIDs of fiction given. Authors' names, publishers, dates such as publishing, etc., are provided. Unlike the other dataset that consisted of some data from an old-time about humans being traded in one of the most tragic and sensitive times and events of history, We are dealing with information about books here. 

I followed the description. This [table](https://view.data.post45.org/index#) has description about each column. I did not understand what a data type is. The glitch was every time you click on one of these question marks, the whole page pushes you back to the first columns and the left side of the table, which makes it hard to go forward and explore all.


On a pivot table located in the sheet called "Jewish Fiction," the number of published novels in the genre of Jewish Fiction during years has been demonstrated. This chart can give a general sense of these works. There are some doubts about what it can mean. First, not all the genres have been successfully marked. Most of the metadata in the genre category is vague, and it does not have a value, meaning the data recorders have not specified the genres for the majority of works. Second, the date shows the publications date and not the first publication date. This point does not hurt the chart, but it should be considered when looking at the chart.
The only thing that can be said is that apparently, the only books labeled by the genre of "Jewish Fiction" have been published between 1946-1998. Again, note that many books are not located in any genre category.

On another Pivot table on the same [file](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1atPbODEX_wqlSdkwk9_lxIKm4MRuDTXkcJD7fsZHG-I/edit?usp=sharing), a chart shows the number of publications per year. To be more specific, by clicking on each year, you can access to another excel sheet in which all the titles published in that specific year are demonstrated. On the last sheet, details of publications in 1946 can be seen.


After taking the data to charts, I found it a bit confusing to work with rows and columns. I went ahead and google ofcourse, but it took me a while to tell the difference between COUNT and COUNTA and VAR, for instance.


## Question of the week: to Discuss and Reflect
  
  
#### Books vs. Humans: What data am I dealing with?

It is noteworthy to acknowledge how these two datasets are different in nature. The process of recording events, numbers, and names that have been done by unknown people (unknown to me: I mean, who were the people counting the people on each ship? There is a lot that can be asked here, but it is impossible to find out probably.). Trusting this metadata is an assumption we decide to make. However, printed books might have come from a somewhat different procedure. Books are still solid items. They can be read; if they are published, the content and other information are recorded by machines from the very beginning. 

As the third principle of [Data Feminism](https://data-feminism.mitpress.mit.edu/pub/5evfe9yd/release/5?readingCollection=0cd867ef) point out, neutrality as said and understood in STEM is not always appreciated when it comes to reading the data in the fields of Humanities. This principle roots for elevating emotion and embodiment. *Data feminism teaches us to value multiple forms of knowledge, including the knowledge that comes from people as living, feeling bodies in the world.*  By looking at the knowledge coming from data recording for the Trans-Atlantic dataset, we cannot neglect the fact that this dataset might also be incomplete for the same reason. The oppressive group of humans and the dominant ones might have been involved only in gathering this data. They might have the power over others, who were enslaved and probably no control over any part of this procedure. Also, due to the same reason, the power, and status, the data recorders might have been equipped with literacy and numeracy, so if there is any additional data relevant to this voyages, we might not have access to it, because that group of people could not have been recorded it at all. 

#### Categorizations offered by whom?
 
 I assume labeling and categorization are still sensitive issues with all the discussions we had during the previous weeks. For instance, I tried to chart the "Jewish Fiction" genre and count them and try to answer this question of how much Jewish fiction has been published in different years. The point is, I wonder who labeled the genres? Why are others N/A, and why these specific ones are marked as Jewish fiction? I assume researching where data comes from is reasonably necessary. Likewise, it is essential to have an idea of the researchers who saw the materials first-handed, labeled them and digitized them, and therefore created the dataset.
 In this case, this question can be researched through their website because these are pretty known projects. But this question needs to be constantly asked before charting and analyzing the data.
 
 
