# Lab 4: Voyant
## Introduction
[Voyant](https://voyant-tools.org/) is a web-based tool for text analysis that is designed to combine ease of use with a sophisticated array of visualization methods.[^1] 
## Lab Questions

- **Question 1:** How does this change the word cloud, and what are these changes telling you? Write down a short answer in your notes document.
   - By default, Voyant assumes that some words can be removed from the body of the text. We can go through them and customize them. 
    However, from my understanding, Voyant is programmed by default, or given, so that it removes prepositions or linking words and etc such a,an the and etc. They're called structure words in some researche works and papers.
   - It’s term-frequency based and available in limited languages. 


- **Question 2:** Why is relative frequency sometimes a more useful or accurate measure of a term’s importance than raw frequency?  
  
  
  The first counts a word frequency divided by million words. Although the raw frequency counts it independently. They both say two different things. One is relative , the other abstract.
What relative frequency can tell us, is the density of a certain word somewhere in the document(s). The word will stand out for its repetition. This repetition can be interesting to go through. Is it an anomaly? Is there anything to do with the content? 
This is noteworthy to understand we are in the section of “trends” and not just overall information about all of the corpus. In this spreadsheet at this section, words are sorted BY a calculated number of relative frequency. The colum of #, tells us a certain word has been trendy in terms of relative frequency in exactly which document – and again not the whole corpus.
In the example we worked on, although students with the repetiion of 3353 times in the whole corpus is the most-repeated word, however, the word mcas has the hightest relative frequency number seen and calculated in document number 442.
In conclusion, when it comes to trends and the density of repition of words in individual documents, relative frequency can be a factor to look at.

- **Question 3:** What is this document? And, more importantly, what have you learned about the term “mcas” in our corpus overall, and/or the utility or value of “significance” metrics like TF-IDF? Write down short answers to these questions in your notes document.

Mcas is shown to be one of those words that are unique to a particular document in the corpus based on TF-IDF score.

Mcas is the most unique word and used many times in Document 442 : 
This word is statistically significant.



Can we megre prof and professors? My question for lab



## Discussions and Reflections

- Discuss your experience doing some exploratory data analysis in this week’s lab in relation to at least one of our readings assigned for this week (week 5). 




[^1]: Dr. Lindsay Thomas's Syllabus: [Lab 4](https://lindsaythomas.net/eng612s22/labs/lab-4/)

