# Lab Report 2
Hello!
Here is a lab report by Yasamin to our second lab on week 3.

# Links to Spreadsheets:
Here is the link to [Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade dataset](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1KYYxc5ZJdavs9ooPrCzEo31H7Zz8wZPVLosmqQZu7qk/edit#gid=1551275087) and the [Post45 HathiTrust dataset](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1atPbODEX_wqlSdkwk9_lxIKm4MRuDTXkcJD7fsZHG-I/edit#gid=126845930).

# Initial Observations
I found it a bit confusing to work with rows and columns. I went ahead and google ofcourse, but it took me a while to tell the difference between COUNT and COUNTA and VAR for instance.

# Question of the week: to Discuss and Reflect


 What do the spreadsheets we explored in this week’s lab make it possible to know or to study or to question, and what do they occlude or make impossible to know or to study or to question?
 
 With all the discussions we had during the previous weeks, I assume labeling and categorization is still a sensitive issue. For instance, I tried to chart the genre of "Jewish Fiction" and count them and try to answer to this question that how many Jewish fiction has been published in different years. The point is, I wonder who labeled the genres? Why others are N/A and why these specific ones are marked as Jewish fiction? I assume researching about where data comes from, is quite necessary. Likewise, Having an idea of the researchers who saw the materials first-handed, labelled them and digitized them and therefore created the dataset, is quite important.
 In this case, this question can be researched through their website, because these are quite known projects. But this question needs to be always asked before charting and analyzing the data.
 
 
