# Final Project: Abstract
1. **If you are working with a partner or a team, who your partner or teammates are:**  I am working with a friend, Dr. Mehdy Sedaghat Payam, a PhD student in Comparative Literature at University of Maryland.
2. **The title of our dataset :** “#Me_too_iran: Tweets from #metoo movement in Iran and Persian sphere of Twitter.”
3. **A brief description of the kind of data your dataset will contain, how you plan to collect it, and your dataset’s boundaries/scope. What is included or excluded from your dataset, and why (i.e., what are the inclusion/exclusion criteria)?**

More than one hashtag is associated with the #MeToo movement in Iran. This movement is still relatively new, as evidenced by the inconsistency of hashtagging. It also represents the lack of SMOs (Social Movement Organization) involved and how the formation of this digital movement is based on individual accounts with no strong social media strategies. This inconsistency complicated the procedure of scraping data. We targetted various forms of this hashtag and other relevant ones as there was not one main umbrella hashtag, and many have been developed since the movement began as seen below. 


چرا_گزارش_ندادم

می_تو

خشونت_جنسی

قربانی_نکوهی

قربانی_نکوهی_نکنیم

من_هم_سکوت_نمیکنم

تجاوز

نام_متجاوز_را_بگو

من_هم_سکوت_نخواهم_کرد

زنان_میتو

چرا_گزارش_نکردم

نام_متجاوز_را_بگو

باجگیری_جنسی

روايت_آزار

علیه_فرهنگ_تجاوز



The main goal is to analyze tweets from hashtags with the most relevant results, meaning the ones related to Me Too movement in Iran. Among all these keywords and hashtags above, #me_too_iran used by the @me_too_iran account, the Me Too Movement page covering the relevant content from and about Iran, provided us with the maximum number of relevant results. This hashtag was first retweeted by Shaghayegh Norouzi, an Iranian actress and women's rights activist on August 24, 2020.   The original creation date for this hashtag is August 14, 2020. 


The only account found to be consistently posting narratives of sexual assault and retweeting news about the movement is @me_too_iran. Although not officially registered as a Social Movement Organization (SMO), this account seems to be the main source on Instagram and Twitter to post relevant materials on the Me Too movement in Iran.


To scrape tweets with hashtag #me_too_iran from Twitter, a developer account is needed. The access level should be upgraded to  level to "academic" so that tweets older than seven days can be scraped. 

 Then a code on Python is needed.  In this code,  Tweepy, which is "an easy-to-use Python library for accessing the Twitter API" should be used. The output of this code will be a CSV file with several columns, including the date that was created, the tweet text, screen name, name, account creation date, and URL (for original tweets only). 

4. **The titles and brief descriptions of each metadata field in your dataset (i.e., an initial draft of your dataset documentation/codebook). This will likely change (and expand) as you work on your dataset, but you should have an initial plan.** 
 -created_at : *Date where the original tweet waas posted*
 -tweet_id: *Tweet ID*
 -tweet_text: *main text of tweet*
 -screen_name: *Twitter ID*
 -name: *Twitter Profile Name*
 -account_creation_date: *date of creation of the account*
 -urls: *Link to original tweet*
 
 The aim is to add “content category”. Categories will be defined in the final project.
 
 
5. **The audience(s) for your dataset. Who are you creating this dataset for? Again, you should think in terms of the overlapping (and often competing) audiences of content experts and general-use experts here.** For researchers and readers of the article. Also for the public who would like to look at the tables and the data.
6. **Several questions your dataset could help these audiences answer.**
 Without analysis, this dataset should help audiences answer how the public discourse and feminist discourse around sexual assault on Twitter in Iran and within diaspora is at a general glance. With further analysis, the dataset should present how hostile the Persian Twittesphere is regarding to speaking of rape and sex crime. 
 
The primary research questions were :
-RQ1: What are the words and meanings created by the public in the discourse of feminism during the #MeTooIran movement?
-RQ2: What pattern emerges among hashtags in the #MeToo movement
        
  More elaborative questions will be:    
 -Did victim-blaming tweets decrease in time or increase during the time?
How is the anti-feminist Twitsphere on Persian Twitter changing- if it is?
-Our data, including the uncategorized Tweets, around 25% of all tweets, are available. It is encouraged for further research that these tweets be explored and studied, and other patterns of framing themes might be suggested and found.
7.**A list of 2-3 already existing related scholarly datasets and an explanation of how your dataset offers a unique contribution/how it is different from these existing datasets. **

-[Trump Twitter Archive](https://www.thetrumparchive.com/)
-[Digital Narratives of COVID-19](https://covid.dh.miami.edu/get/)

It’s more or less the same method, on the same materials (tweets)- with this difference that on our dataset we have the date of the creation of an account that has posted a tweet. Plus, we will have a column called content, in which by close reading, the tweet will be assigned to a subjective created category.
